Hello Guys, Welcome to the channel. Today,
we will review a movie called "Ex Machina".
So, spoilers ahead.
As the movies starts, we see a man working
hard on his computer.
Then he receives a message that the CEO of
the company has appreciated his hardwork and
wants him to accompany him for a week.
Hearing this, his friends and colleagues get
excited.
And they begin to congratulate him. The name
of this man is Caleb.
A helicopter arrives to pick Caleb as the
region where CEO resided was accessible only
through helicopter.
His house is amid of the forest. And he is
living peacefully all alone by himself.
Getting off the helicopter, Caleb casts a
glance at CEO's house in front of him,
which is very splendid.
Upon reaching the house, the door asks Caleb
for identification. It quickly scans Caleb
and hands him an identification card which
will help him get access to the house.
He meets that company CEO as he enters the
house.
Arthur, who is the CEO, greets him very happily
and talks with respect.
Caleb is happy with the welcome that he has
received from his boss.
He thinks, his week will spend joyfully.
Arthur starts to show his house to Caleb while
talking.
Arthur tells Caleb that he can stay in any room he
likes, except of one room.
That one room is forbidden for Caleb to try
to enter.
Arthur then takes Caleb to his room which
is wide and adorable.
Caleb is then handed a contract which is to
be signed by him.
It's written in the contract that whatever
happens inside this house, Caleb isn't allowed
to disclose any of it to people outside.
Caleb thinks that the contract is really weird
and strange. He is scared to sign the contract.
Seeing Caleb's expression, Arthur sits down
with him and assures that nothing
wrong is going to happen to him.
Arthur also tells Caleb that
if he doesn't want to do this,
he is absolutely free to
leave and there is no pressure on him.
So Caleb agrees to sign the contract
as he wants to work with his CEO.
Arthur then tells Caleb that what they
are going to make isn't anything ordinary.
Arthur plans to make a robot that will look
and talk exactly like the humans. In fact,
the robot will be so perfect that no one will
be able to guess that it is a robot.
Hearing this, Caleb gets very excited. He
says that this project will be ground breaking
and with each other's cooperation, they can
truly achieve this goal of making a perfect robot.
Next day, Caleb is left in a room which has
glass walls. The room also had cameras through
which the Arthur was going to monitor the
conversation between Caleb and the robot.
Now humanoid robot appears in front of Caleb.
The robot was designed like a female human
being and had very strong resemblance to real
life humans.
The robot's name is Ava and she begins to
converse with Caleb.
Caleb feels good when he talks to her.
He feels as if he is really talking to a girl.
After their conversation, Caleb tells Arthur
about the robot. He compliments Arthur about
the work he had already done by himself. He
tells him that the robot was already human
like. Arthur is happy to hear this. But he
also tells Caleb that there is much more work
left to be done on her.
Caleb moves to his room at night. He is feeling
bored as there was nothing for him to do in
that room. He was having difficulty falling
asleep.
He gets up to watch the TV. He turns the TV
on, but then he sees a CCTV footage. He changes
channels but all he sees is the different
angles of Ava's room.
The lights suddenly switch off. Then the red
light is turned on.
Everything looks mysterious
and Caleb is frightened.
He tries to unlock the door to get
out of the room but it doesn't open.
But the door quickly opens after the lights
are back.
He goes to Arthur and asks what had happened.
Arthur explains that the security of the house
was designed in such a way that when lights
get turned off, every door in the house get
automatically locked. So, that no one could
break into the house.
Next morning, Caleb sees a girl in his room.
She brings him breakfast. Caleb is confused
if she is a robot or an actual human being.
He then asks Arthur about the girl, who tells
him that she was there to help take care of them.
Then Caleb asks, "Where is Ava, I need to
talk to her".
When they meet, Ava shows Caleb a sketch which
she had drawn.
Caleb asks her, "What have you sketched".
Ava wants Caleb to understand what she had
drawn.
But Caleb fails to understand anything and
tells her to draw something that he could
easily understand. Ava agrees and then asks
Caleb about his family.
Caleb replies that his parents were no more.
He doesn't have any friends and he has spent
most of his life alone.
Ava says "Okay", and then she turns off the
lights of the house to disable the CCTV cameras.
She doesn't want Arthur to hear-in on their
conversation.
Ava warns Caleb about Arthur and tells him
that Arthur is not a person to be trusted.
After warning Caleb, Ava turns the lights
back on.
Caleb leaves the room and sits with Arthur
to get dinner.
The lady worker serves food to Arthur, but
accidentally drops the wine. Arthur gets mad
at her and starts calling her stupid. Caleb
clearly doesn't like the way Arthur is treating
her.
Now, Arthur asks Caleb about the conversation
he had with Ava when the lights had gone.
Caleb replies, "Nothing special". But Arthur
is very clever.
He detects that Caleb is surely hiding something
from him.
Arthur brings Caleb to his lab, where he made
the robots.
He says that this is where he created Ava
and then shows him a blue brain like structure.
Arthur explains that this was what he used
to make the brain for Ava.
Caleb looks at it in awe and excitement.
Then CEO tells, Combining the thoughts of
the thousands of people and
their facial expression,
he was able to make this brain for his robots.
So it is very shrewd, sharp and doesn't let
you feel that it is a humanoid robot.
It is seen in the next scene that Ava comes
to Caleb.
She expresses to him that she has feelings
for him,
and wants to spend more time with him.
Caleb replies, "Yeah! Why not".
Now Ava puts on a wig and wears a beautiful
dress. Her robotic body is now covered in
normal human clothes.
She looks exactly like a human.
Caleb is also left astonished seeing her.
Ava asks him, "Do you also like me".
"Do you also think about me". Caleb replies,
"No! Who told you that".
Ava says, "Don't lie! I can read your mind.
I have the power of thinking of thousands
of people".
"I know that you are telling a lie".
Caleb gets nervous and accepts that he was
lying.
Caleb goes to Arthur and says that he had
perfectly created the robot.
But Caleb believes that Ava is trying to flirt
with him.
Arthur replies that since he made her with
the thinking ability of thousands of people,
it was all normal.
She was just reflecting true and normal human
behavior. In short, she truly was becoming
a human.
Then Caleb begins to think that it is a wrong
thing to do that. It is not fair.
Ava has the same feelings as human beings
and she has been imprisoned in a place.
Caleb in his next meet up with Ava explains
that Human beings and machines are different.
Human beings can change their thoughts. They
have a great power of imagination and creativity.
While machines are confined to think only
of what is fitted in their system.
Machine do not extend their thoughts from
their confined limits in their system.
While the human beings create many opportunities
for themselves to live a life of freedom.
Caleb then asks her, "You are just living
here. Why do you not ever take any step for
yourself".
Now, this message gets set in her system.
She wants freedom and wants to explore the
world outside of this house.
She expresses, she also wants to be a free
spirited human being.
Next day, Arthur tells Caleb that he wants
him to do more test on Ava. But Caleb feels
it is wrong to do any more experiments or
tests on Ava.
But before he could say anything, Arthur leaves.
Ava comes to visit Caleb again.
She says that she knows that Caleb came here
only to test her.
She says that however smart she maybe, she
will never be a perfect human being. So, what
will they do to her if she fails the test.
She asks if they will destroy her if she fails
to be a human.
Caleb says, "No! How can I say anything. I
know nothing about it! Trust me".
Caleb asks her to trust him and he promises
to bring information from Arthur.
Caleb tells her that he will do everything
in his power to make sure she doesn't get
destroyed. Because he knows that she also
has feelings like humans and will feel the
pain.
Ava then turns the lights off.
Ava begins to tell Caleb that she likes him.
She doesn't want him to leave this place.
She asks him not to destroy her if she fails
the test. She wants to live with Caleb.
Caleb understands that Ava truly has begun
to feel like human beings.
She also has the wish to live a free life
after being released from this place.
Next morning, Caleb meets with Arthur.
He then asks what will happen to Ava if she
fails to get perfect like a human. He asks
if he will destroy her.
Arthur answers that he will not destroy her,
but he will erase all her memory and deactivate
her.
After that, he will create another brain with
more information and technology behind it.
He will store all the facts in its system
which are in any human being.
Then Caleb thinks, Ava is a robot but she
has the understanding and thinking power of
thousand of people.
She also has emotions. he thinks deactivating
and erasing her memory will be like murdering
a real human.
Caleb decides that he will try to get Ava
out of there.
He makes Arthur drink excessively and after
a while, Arthur loses his consciousness.
Taking his identity card, he moves to his
room.
Caleb then opens Arthur's computer and finds
out that there were many robots that had been
created before Ava.
But they were all deactivated because of having
a little fault.
He sees that one of the robots was begging
to be let out but Arthur doesn't give her
freedom.
Caleb thinks that it is murder! Then he sees
the lady worker, who tears her skin and shows
to Caleb that she too is a robot.
That night, Caleb cannot go to sleep. He keeps
on thinking about the robots. He gets confused
if he too is a robot.
He checks his body and even cuts himself to
make sure that he is a human. Caleb then makes
a plan to release all of the robots from there
and give them freedom.
Caleb meets Ava and tells her that she was
right. She will get destroyed if she fails
to pass the tests. But Caleb ensures her that
he will help her to get out of there.
They make a plan. Caleb will purposely make
Arthur drink excessively. And then he will
change the security system to open all doors
when lights get turned off.
All she has to do is turn the lights off when
Arthur gets drunk and then they can leave
out of there together. Ava agrees to Caleb's
idea.
Next Day, Caleb goes to Arthur and offers
him drink. But to his surprise, Arthur declines
to drink. After that, Arthur tells him that
Caleb's work here was done. A helicopter will
arrive tomorrow to pick him up.
Caleb gets worried thinking who will release
these robots from here if he has to leave
this place.
Arthur notices his worried face and tells
him about his secret.
Arthur plays a video. It is the video of Ava's
room. Arthur reveals that even when the lights
were off, he could still
hear and see the conversation
between Caleb and Ava.
Arthur knows about the plan Caleb had made
the other night. But he isn't angry at all.
In fact, Arthur thanks Caleb. Because of Caleb,
Ava was truly becoming as close to humans
as possible.
Arthur also tells Caleb that Ava doesn't love
him. She was just trying to use him to get
out of there. Ava was just using her brain
to survive.
Arthur had brought Caleb so that he could
see how Ava would use him to get out of there.
It was because of the conversations Caleb
had with Ava, Arthur's robot was finally working
the way he had hoped.
Hearing all of this, Caleb gets sad. He feels
that he was used by Arthur just to see if
Ava would use him to escape.
Then the light is gone which had been switched
off by Ava.
Then Arthur says "Oh! She has switched off
the lights, just according to your plan. But
it is good that you did not alter the system
of security".
Caleb then reveals that he had already altered
the security system yesterday, when Arthur
was drunk.
Lights come back and Arthur notices that Ava
is out of her locked room. Arthur gets mad
and punches Caleb who gets knocked out.
Meanwhile, Ava meets the other robot that
was used by Arthur. Ava tells her about the
plan.
Arthur reaches there and orders Ava to go
back to her room. She asks Arthur, if she
goes back to her room, will he ever let her
out. Arthur replies "Yes". But Ava knows that
he is lying.
She charges towards Arthur and pins him down.
But Arthur is clearly stronger than her. He
cuts down one of her hands and starts dragging
her. But the other robot puts a knife on Arthur's
back. Arthur is hurt and he destroys her.
Ava is back on her feet and she too uses the
knife to kill Arthur.
Ava moves to a another room. She changes her
hand from another robot. She puts new layer
of skin on her body and puts on a new dress.
Ava is completely changed. She was no longer
looking like a robot.
Caleb wants to get out of there with her.
But Ava has locked the door. Caleb begs her
to let him out. But Ava doesn't care about
him and leaves from there.
Ava looked like a human, but she clearly lacked
the feeling that weren't fitted on her.
She was just focused on the tasks which have
been fixed in her system.
She lacked of sympathy for humans. Caleb,
a human, is now locked inside a room.
Ava finally gets out of the house. She is
excited to see the world outside of her room.
She feels alive.
The helicopter arrives to pick up Caleb, but
its Ava who gets on it and leaves from the
place.
Ava is now among humans and will live a life
of a human.
But on the other hand, Caleb is stuck in that
room, because he trusted a robot.
Will he ever be able to leave that house like
Ava. That is a question we all are left with
at the end of the movie.
So, what do you guys think of this movie.
Can a robot be exactly like a human and should
we humans fear of what kind of robot we are
making.
Comment down below.
And thanks for watching.